22/09/2020
Accenture:
Ansible:
1)What are handlers
2)What types modules we have?
3)where do we have ansible config file location?
4)what are ansible tags?
5)what are ansible blocks
6) what are Ansible Roles? 4 types
7)what is Ansible tower? How to monitor jobs in it?
8)what are ansible vaults?why we need to encrypt playbook?what is the command to excute 
Ansible vault is useful to encrypt our playbooks(including roles and variable)
We need to encrypt our playbooks because there is a possibly that playbooks contain certain credentials(passwords,Aws keys) 
,SSL certificates or other sensitive data.saving such sentive data is bad idea,because ,one wrong commit can cause org a huge loss.
Or 
Ansible Vault is a feature of ansible that allows you to keep sensitive data such as passwords or keys in encrypted files, 
rather than as plaintext in playbooks or roles. These vault files can then be distributed or placed in source control.
Command: ansible-vault encrypt playbookname 
after that enter password, we should remember this password.
9)what are adhoc commands?
10)What is ansible?
11.what is maven plugin installed in Jenkins
mavantop level  invoks
12.what are the maven phases and goals ?which ones runs first?
What are Maven goals and phases and what is their difference?
Goals are executed in phases which help determine the order goals get executed in. 
The best understanding of this is to look at the default Maven lifecycle bindings which shows which goals get run 
in which phases by default. The compile phase goals will always be executed before the test phase goals which will always be 
executed before the package phase goals and so on.



Harman Interview questions:
[11:49, 05/11/2020] Latish DevOps DBA: 
1. How you integrated the build or deployed in the pipeline?  How many instances you used in your   environment?
2. Whatever you way created deployment? How many hosts used for the same?
3. Why you are use webhooks?
4. What all things you configured in Devops from scratch?
5. How you cut cost for your development Deployments (Infrastructure)?
6. What functionality you used in Ingress controller?
7. Which Load balancer in EKS?
8. Can you let me know the procs and cons of co-ordinates?
9. How Ingress Manage the instances? redirect the request?
10. How you define the Path and rule?
11. How you configured the authentication?
12. Are you configured the RBAC Authentication?
13. What is the ARM? Why we use it?
14. How many types of the users configured with the K8's Instance for the Deployment?
15. Are you handling the certificate healing?
16. I want to deploy (install) 10 services for K8's, It can use 50000 users   used by the application? How you will deploy? Which strategy you followed?
17. What is a portal? Diff b/n Portal and Website?
18. How can you access the particular Load balancer? my ELB is outside?
19. I am created (db)postgres sql for one pod, one of my instance 'Centos',    I have deployed something, i want use my db inside with the k8's how can i use that?
20. What is the head less service?	
21. How you will deploy the portal? Where will you deploy? What is the drawback?
22. Can you give me the example, where the portal is also deployed on the same k8’s cluster where the server…
23. Which configuration mgt tool u used?
24. What OS u used? Any specific reason?
25. Have you done any port forwarding?
26. What is the blue print of your infrastructure?
27. How you automated those Devops tools in your environment?
[11:51, 05/11/2020] Latish DevOps DBA: 8th question  Kubernetes sir in place co-ordinates.

Company Name: v2soft

V2Soft
----------------
1st Round

1) Tell me about yourself
2) What are the git best practices u suggested
3) Have you done any migration from svn to github?
4) Have you done Jenkins Migration
5) How you creat Repository in Github
6) How you give Acess for your users for perticular job in jenkins
7) what are the jobs you created in jenkins
8) Tell me what are the steps you written in ur pipeline job
9) Maven Lifecycle
10) how to check perticular port wether it is running on not?
11) How you give permission to files or directories
12) how you add  user to a group
13) how will u check memory utilization


2nd round (Hands on)
-------------------------------
Create a file called index.html in github repository add some massage in to that
write a pipeline job to pull the context.html from github
deploy to webapp server (apache2) and access it outside (web)
and if u made any changes in index.html it should poll or trigger job automatically from jenkins.



some other important questions:
---------------------------------
Roles and Responsibilitis in SonarQube Server
---------------------------------------------

Install the SonarQube Server

Configure Sonarqube Server Details in pom.xml

Creating  Users / Configure LDAP Server

Creating Groups

Create the Quality Profiles as per Project requirement.

Create the Quality Gates as per Project requirement.

Roles and Responsibilitis in Nexus Server
-----------------------------------------

Install the Nexus Server

Create the Repositories (Maven2 - hosted,Proxy and group, Docker)

Configure Nexus Repository Details in pom.xml and credentails in settings.xml
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Creating  Users / Configure LDAP Server
--> docker build -t Hostname/ip ofRepo:port/Appname:version . 
ex: docker build -t 123.455.697.56:8081/appname:1 for private repo
    docker build -t vithalterdal/appname . (for docker repo)

Dockerfile
-----------
FROM tomcat:8.8.20-jre8
COPY target/*.war /user/local/tomcat/webapps/appname.war

incase of public Repo
docker login -u vithalterdal -p *****


incase of Private Repo
docker login -u vithalterdal -p ***** <URL> 
Ex: docker login -u admin -p admin123 nexus.tcs.com
Ex: docker login -u admin -p admin123 198.789.321.12:8083

Qtn: How can you move your image from 1 server to another server without repository

Ans:(docker save to docker load and SCP)
1) Create tar file with command
docker save imagename -o newimagename.tar
2) SCP from 1server to another server
3) docker load -i newimagename.tar

Qtn: What is dangling images
 Ans : The images which is not taged to any repository it contains only image name is called danglig images

Qtn:Home directory of docker ?
Ans : /var/lib/docker
Commands
docker logs container_name
docker inspect container_name

Qtn: How to trouble shoot the containers?
Ans: Docker logs container_id
by system error and system out we will find the errors
and check docker proccess
docker top container_id--to check process on which container
docker stats container_id to see cpu utilization it will show max and used memory and cpu utilization defualt merory is 983mb~1Gb

Qtn: How to execute some commands on running container
Ans: docker exec container_name linuxcommand
     docker exec appname ls / ----->tocheck root directory
     docker exec appname ls
     docker exec appname pwd
     docker exec appname cat /etc/*release
  **all the containers uses system kurnels
Qtn: How to login into a container
Ans: docker exec -it container_name /bin/bash

If some containers not having bash then
     docker exec -it container_name /bin/sh
Qtn:  How to copy files from container to system or system to container
Ans: docker cp containername:/usr/local/tomcat/logs/catalina.out cat.out(for current directory)--cont to system
     docker cp file.txt containername:/usr/local/tomcat/logs/test.txt

Qtn: docker kill vs docker stop
Ans: docker stop will send SIGTERM and SIGKILL after grace period
     docker kill will send SIGKILL

Dockerfile--> Dockerfile is the input for the docker images.
In Dockerfile we write the instructions using docker file keywords.
Docker will process these instructions from top to bottom.

Qtn: How many FROM keywords you can have in a Dockerfile ?
Answer: yes more than 1 we can have that concept is call multistage Dockerbuild 

Qtn: What is difference between COPY and docker cp
Ans: COPY is used to copy files from local system to image
     docker cp will copy from local to container and also from container to local system
Qtn: Diff between CMD and Entrypoint
Ans: CMD commands can be overriden while creating a container.Entrypoint commands cant be overridden while creating a container
ex: CMD java -jar jarfileName.jar
--CMD commands will be execute as child process under /bin/bash or bash/sh main process .CMD command will be executed as /bin/bash -c "command"
--Entrypoint commands will be executed as main process /bin/<command>. CMD command will be executed as /bin/bash -c "command".

https://github.com/MithuntechnologiesDevops===Reffer for Dockerfiles

In which scenario we can use both CMD & Entrypoint
We can use CMD & Entrypoint together if we have to pass/overrite arguments for your entry point
 EX: sh catalina.sh 
CMD run
ENTRYPOINT ["sh","catelina.sh"]
Output = sh catelina.sh run
while creating container we can mension CMD ex
docker run imagename restart
Important QTNS.
Difference between RUN AND CMD.
Difference between ENTRYPOINT AND CMD.
CAN we can more CMD in a dockerfile
Can we have Entrypoints in a docker file
Basically CMD And Entrypoint are used to start the process while creating ours container.
WE can have more than one entrypoint and CMD but latest one will be executed.

Qtn: can we have more than one process in a container?
yes we can have but it is no recommended.bcz hole concept of docker is isolate process.
how? create shell script copy the shell Script with COPY then with CMD or Entrypoint run the shell script

VOLUMES
------------
two types
1) bind mounts
2) volume
1) bind mounts(not recomended)
-------------------
***We can't do volume mapping for running container.While creating container only we need to do volume mapping.

When we use bind mount, a file or directory on the host machine is mounted into a container.
The directory is referenced by its fill or relative path
EX: create directory 
mkdir mongodbbackup 
docker run -d --name mongo -v /home/ubuntu/mongodbbackup:/data/db --network flipkartnetwork mongo
                                 (host path)              (container path)
If u delete container data still exist and if u create a container with same volume mounting ur date retrived and attaced to the mount point 

2)Volumes
--------------
volume are prepered way for persiting data generated and used by docker containers. 
while bind mounts are dependet on the directory structure of the host system.
Volume are completely managed by docker.
volumes are easier to backup or migrate.
we can manage volumes using docker cli
volumes will work in both linux/windows
volume drivers we let us to store volumes on remote servers or cloud provider.(ex:s3,ebs,efs, nfs)

How do you take jenkins backup or jenkins job migration>
copy the /var/lib/jenkins ---working directery
install jenkins in 2nd server and reload the jobs

Same for docker /var/lib/docker migrate this folder

docker volume create -d local mongobkp
docker volume create -d local volumewithlimit --opt "size=50m" (notworking but we ca set like this)
ex: docker run -d -v volumename:containerpath --network networkname imagename
    docker run -d --name mongo -v mongobkp:/data/db --network flipkartnetwork mongo

REX-Ray (supports ebs,efs.s3)volume plugin for cloud storage to attach to container
install this plugin
docker plugin install rexray/ebs EBS_ACCESSKEY=AWS ACCESS KEY EBS_SECRETKEY=AWS SECRET KEY
docker plugin ls
docker volume create -d rexray/ebs mongoebsbkp
Volume mapping while creating a container
docker run -d --name mongo -v mongoebsbkp:/data/db --network flipkartnetwork mongo

What is monolithic VS micro-services Architechture


What is difference between global and replica mode
By default service will be created in replica mode with 1 replica if we dont mension.
docker service create --name <serviceName> -p <hostPort>:<containerPort> --replicas <NoofReplicas> <imageName>
In replica mode we can scale up amd scale the number of replicas(containers).

Global mode will create container in all the machines of docker swarm.We can't scale up and scale down the conatiners.
when you add a new machine to docker swarm container for the global mode services will be created automatically in newly added machines

docker service create --name <serviceName> --mode blobal -p <hostPort>:<containerPort> <imageName>

EX: docker service create ngnix -p 80:80 --mode global nginx

Qtn: how to place container in specific machine in docker swarms

Ans: with labels and constraints
docker service create --name javawebapp --mode global --constraint "node.role==worker" dockerhandson/java-web-app only to run in worker machine.
to constrain on the basic of application type for each node(making app and db group seperatly)
docker node update --lable-add "name=appserver" nodeID(to get node id docker node ls)
docker node update --lable-add "name=dbserver" nodeID(to get node id docker node ls) 
--now
docker service create --name mavenwebapp -p 9090:8080 --replicas 2 --constraint "node.labels.name==appserver" dockerhandson/maven-web-app.
Qtn: if this machine itself is gone down what will happen? 
Anw: application will go down it will not create another instance unless untile other macine have same condition and constraint

Qtn: what is docker stack?
stack is a collection of services .We can manage group of services using docker stack in docker swarm.

Qtn: what is docker service?
Ans: its one or more containers(replicas) specific to one image in docker swarm.

docker swarm init 
it will create default overlay network naming ingress for swarm scope.

Docker Swarm Quetions and answers
These are for two different applications for one client
Qtn: How many Docker machines you have?
Ans:30 to 40 (including jenkins docker nexus etc)
Qtn:What is the capacity of your server?
Ans: 128GB Ram ,64 core processer
     64 ram     32 core processer
     32Gb ram   12 core processer
Qtn:How many docker-swarm cluster u have?
DEV:2 managers 6 workers
QA:3 managers 10 workers
Prod:3 managers 10 workers
Qtn: How many manager and how many workers u have in your production server?
Ans: 3 manager 10 workers
Qtn: How many services you have in your application/docker swarm?
Ans: We have about 35 to 40 microservices
Qtn: How many stack?
Ans: 2 stacks
Qtn: Totally How many containers?
Ans: 200 to 250 containers
Qtn: How many containers in one machine?
Ans: depends on capacity of machine
Qtn: Load balancer in docker?
Ans: External ELB is used with docker swarm--(ELB for only load balancing)
Docker swarm will not create another server if it is down ..it orchestrate the services.

## wipro

1. tell me about yourself 

2. your daily activities 

3. what are the tickets you get normally 

4. can you explain me how to install tomcat (steps in details)

5. tell me about jenkins master slave architecture

6. what is git stash

7, can you please explain me about ansible architecture

8. Git merge and Git pull. Difference between Git and SVN

9. what are docker commands for exposing to outside world

10. what is docker compose ? Docker file

11. can you explain about CICD Pipeline

12. what is the configuration management and why ansible only

13. What is container orchestration ? why kubernetes is used in micro services




